the EVGA classified super record 2 is an
utterly Unique Piece of gaming history
when it was released this motherboard
and the two CPUs inside it would have
set you back nearly
$4,000 add some memory case and power
supply probably a handful of gpus for
that sweet sweet quad SLI action and we
are dangerously close to a gaming system
that would cost
$10,000 adjusted for inflation a gaming
system all I can say is for that kind of
money this thing better be pretty darn
future proof it better be would you look
at the time it's future o' so to see if
the sr2 still F we put together a
library of awesome games that still
support SLI and we got our hands on not
one but four of the fastest quad SLI
gpus that EVGA ever built to see how
this monster holds up 9 to 13 years
later like the video if you think that's
a good question to
answer certainly better than that segue
to our sponsor flexi spot with improved
stability a weight capacity of up to 540
lbs and a 15-year warranty the flexi
spot E7 plus is built to stand the test
of time pun intended check it out at the
link down
below
[Music]
the very first thing you'll notice about
the classified sr2 is its massive size
this ain't your mama's eatx and it ain't
even your papy's xlx it uses a form
factor of evga's own design
hptx that weighs in at a colossal 15 in
by 13 and half their justification well
where else are we going to put the two
Zeon workstation CPUs the 12 sticks of
DDR3 memory and the whopping s pcie gen
2x6 expansion slots to even get that
much Hardware support in spite of EVGA
marketing this platform to enthusiasts
and Gamers they used an Intel 5520
server chipset so as we mentioned before
we've gone with the best chips of
aailable for it a pair of xon
x5690 Allin we're talking 24 total
threads with 24 megabytes of cache
operating at turbo speeds of up to
3.73 GHz and the word on the street is
that if you're willing to risk your
substantial
investment
$1,600 each they overclock like wild on
this board challenge accepted to make
the platform more friendly to Consumers
the classified sr2 supports non ECC Ram
so the same kind you would put in a
gaming system rather than a server or a
workstation we did find that the support
for it was a little bit spotty
especially when we tried to Cobble
together kits out of older sticks we had
lying around but thankfully Corsair
still makes DDR3 and they sent over
enough sticks for us to Cobble together
a couple of triple Channel DDR 3600 kits
will we get better performance than dual
channel in games almost definitely not
is it cool heck yeah it is is it soft no
for that you're going to need the new
polo from LTT store.com time to get this
mama jama installed and
uh
um thankfully we've got a solution the
one the only EVGA
dg85 I flipping love this case it's
going to require a little bit of work
but this case unironically holds up
extremely well HDMI pass through for VR
a built-in rear door for a super clean
look an acrylic side panel and acrylic
interior panel not to mention ample
Cable Management the only issue is that
these standoffs are not in the right
place though that seems to be more the
board's fault than the case's fault
going to have to mask these
off three screws seems pretty good now
something that doesn't hold up as well
is the storage support on this board
modern nvme drives require a ufi type
firmware rather than an older bios type
firmware and the sr2 it ain't got it
there are hacky workarounds involving a
bootloader on a SATA device and then
handing off to an nvme device but for
Simplicity we've stuck with tried and
true SATA 2 terabytes for our library of
SLI compatible games now we need to
think about power if we want to run not
one not two but four 980 TI I mean
that's 1,000 Watts right there and our
CPUs are going to draw up to 130 watts
each that's over 1,200 Watts if only
there was someone who made a power
supply that could well okay you spoiled
it okay fine we're using the EVGA
Supernova 1600 T2 and the size isn't the
only weird thing about this motherboard
I mean look at all of these extra power
connectors we've got two eight pins for
the CPUs and then an additional three
six pin PCI Express for auxiliary power
for well potentially all these devices
that won't be a problem for us though
because we don't care about cable
managing this build there we go we chose
this particular card because it's a twos
slot variant so when we went to add
three more of them they would actually
fit without using risers plus I mean
look tvga we had to go EVGA you believe
a top-of-the-line GPU with a 384bit bus
and six gigs of memory was only
$650 practically pay that much for a GP
with six gigs of memory today I mean not
quite
but jeez anyway we're going to take a
baseline with just one of these cards
then we're going to add some
more she works it's alive two CPUs let's
go what better way to try out our six
gaming system then
crisis 2 considering it's only running
at between 60 and 70 FPS at 1440p I
wouldn't say it's running especially
well but that was kind of this game's
whole deal let's see if our system can
handle something more modern what about
cyber Punk hold on hold on it doesn't
say play
again I wanted to play the new crisis
cyber Punk but red launcher's crashing
even with the Legacy patch that's fine
let's overclock this thing man I do not
remember how to overclock on this
platform In fairness to me it's been
over 10 years okay let's just try dummy
OC dummy OC let's go oh it worked we are
over 4 GHz gummy OC for the win
effortless little bit more voltage easy
4.2 dang CPUs are only at like 60 too
this is why people used to overclock cuz
there was a point I want more though oh
my God that was 400 watts decided to go
for gold here we went straight to 4.5
GHz are we going to get
it oh oh she crashed
4.35 I
believe no blue
screen we're going to take the easy w at
4.2 what kind of FPS we looking at I'm
Vibe checking frame view doesn't work on
Windows 7 so we just have to Vibe the
FPS S I would say it's not a lot better
but it's a little better I'm seeing far
fewer dips into the mid-60s that
indicates to us that a faster CPU never
hurts but it wasn't our main bottleneck
thankfully we have a plan let's see how
many gpus we can stuff in here by the
way did I mention we're sucking back
like 500 watts with only one 980 TI
right now to somewhat control our
benchmarking I am going to look at this
flame that's going to be our scene 93 fr
frames per
second and now you see why we didn't
bother cable managing anything while
there are nine PCI slots at the back and
in theory that's all we need cuz the
first two are unoccupied and then we've
got seven all right that last card is a
double slot card and um there's nowhere
for it to go that's where our new case
comes in did uh Justin make this test
bench oh yeah did he do it really fast
oh yeah nice unironically this is how a
lot of people ran sr2 I mean it's right
in the name this was not a daily driver
platform for regular consumers it's the
super record 2 something about loading
up a motherboard with gpus that just man
I miss it you know time for the big
moment the quad SLI
Bridge
oh yeah now for the most fun part
configure SL maximize 3D performance uh
casual uh 400 Watts at the desktop 500
watts at the desktop no big deal this
really is the Hummer of gaming machines
all this brick of gpus would cost you
back when it was new was
$2,600 accounting for inflation is about
equivalent to$ 249s today but hey it's
got 24 gigs of vram just like a 4090
maybe it'll keep up no that's not how
that works that's not how any of this
works last time we ran the unigen heaven
Benchmark on this system it was with
just one card we got around 2200 points
coming just shy of 90 frames per second
four-way SLI scaling isn't perfect but I
got to say I was expecting a little
better than that here's the thing
remember that 24 gigs of vram well it's
split between all four different cards
you don't just get to pull it together
every one of these has to hold their own
copy of any asset that's required in
order to render the scene also this SLI
link not that fast so the intercard
communication adds a ton of overhead as
they're coordinating who's working on
exactly what what this means is that
especially Beyond Two Cards the scaling
is awful and the worst part is that none
of that is the worst part it's hard to
pick up on camera but oh yeah there it
is you probably saw that micro stutter
which is caused by uneven timing of the
delivered finished frames can be very
distracting and make a higher frame rate
feel like a lower one because of the
hitches and choppiness but I'm not going
to let that dampen my enthusiasm let's
run some games all right here we
go it's like not even 10 FP it's
96 oh my God hold on hold on we haven't
gotten down to our fire yet we got to
look at the fire maybe this setup is
fire and all we're drawing is uh 800
watts you know what hold on a second no
no this is faster we're
at95 120 FPS but that fire 140 150 FPS
that's that's legit actually cuz we were
getting 90 something before the 50%
Improvement never mind that two cards
probably would have gotten to very
similar numbers but then we wouldn't get
to see the sweet sweet SLI times 4 in
our top left try to launch another SLI
game let's see how compatible SLI was
with uh video game games back then all
right could we have done 4K woo she's
floaty and that 60 FPS does not feel
like 60 FPS oh wow that's truly awful I
want to see 1440p man this bottom card
the fan just keeps turning off going
back on it's not doing anything while
we're drawing 630 Watts it's actually
less than I was expecting it's a lot
less than I was expecting they're
definitely not going to full usage nope
I mean I think if it's all the way all
four are being used so we are basically
not touching our quad no we're using
like one and a half cards something to
keep in mind is that even games that
support SLI don't necessarily support
three-way or four-way SLI let alone take
like full advantage of it like support
does not mean utilize Titanfall 2 yeah
it was on the list crank it times eight
yeah yeah it'll do 8X
msaa I'm getting over 100 FPS 108 1080
but this is cranked 1080p by the time
you put on 8X msaa you might as well be
running out a higher resolution yeah but
look we're using still like one maybe
two cards yep all we're really learning
is that the 980 TI is a really good
card and we can tell from our power
consumption too actually our power
consump around 750 watts we are probably
getting some benefit minor but
some yeah these boys are not doing much
GPU 0 42 48
5054 so it's not that only one GPU is
doing the work it's that each GPU is
doing very little of it okay tried Jedi
fall in order that's from 2019 here we
go with a system from 2010 to 2015
depending how you measure it no I see I
doing weird stuff in the startup menu uh
but is using a lot more of the cards I
paid for the whole card I want to use
the whole card yeah 144 graphic quality
epic epic here we go uh o this does not
bode well that does not look like 60 FPS
sir I mean it's using those cards though
oh
yeah oh boy
740 750 okay never mind the power is
being used and we're getting 68 FPS but
that looks more like 25 oh yeah even
just through the camera like it should
be plain to see that that is not 75
FPS oh wow that was
horrible oh did you see that was it
transitioned highest we're going for it
absolutely cranked 1080p screen capab
broke I mean the game's working this is
only 45 FPS and feels way better than
Jedi fall and ordered it at 75 we lost
our SLI tracker though yeah we don't
know how much is being used very little
it turns out 60 watts yep Ultra Plus wow
that is a very uh excited ponytail yeah
why is it shaking so much why is
everything awful so much
oh wow what is
happening I don't think the Witcher 3
despite saying that it's compatible with
SLI I don't think it likes it at all but
none of that is the fault of the
classified sr2 so what if we took a more
modern Jeep puu and at least gave it a
chance to run these modern games In
fairness to SLI this was the last
generation of cards to use the older
style non High Bend width link and
before gpus got this fast it did work a
little better it was less of a
bottleneck this feels stupid but I'm
doing it wait a second are there even
Windows 7 drivers for the 490 that is a
great question I don't I doubt it okay
the 490 doesn't have a driver for
Windows 7 but you know what I say to
that no big loss cuz guess what the 3090
TI does and also hey happens to be the
fastest card EVGA ever made well fastest
card they sold fastest card they sold
were you in 1440 before when you got the
130 number 120 what 150 at the fire what
like 140 150 it's not that much better
well we're not the fire yet I guess no
but it's not that much better right
that's wild then hold on what's our Cuda
cor counts Colin can you look up how
many cacor a 980 TI has and then compare
that times 4 to how many cacor a 390 TI
has uh Vance can you look it up please
sure he tries so hard as it turns out
the total number of cakor is not that
dissimilar with this having about
10,700 and our 4 980 TI totaling around
11,000 does it maybe make sense that the
performance is about the same holy crap
the performance is about the same wow
actually power consumption is not even
that far off no 580 pretty close this is
obviously a case where the CPU is what
is holding us back in spite of the fact
that we're running it 1440p Ultra let's
try a more demanding game crisis 2 was
demanding for its time
wow I mean it looks better it looks way
better yeah you know what it's super h
though yeah we're probably held back a
little bit by DDR3 as well our CPU even
though we're at like what 4 GHz uh the
IPC of how many generations yeah is
really going to climb and something to
consider is that if any aspect of this
game leaks off of the six cores that are
on the one CPU and needs to be handled
by the other one we have to wait around
for that qpi link between the CPUs you
can really see it these birds are like
yeah they just like stop and then go I
want to try a couple more games
though this is 100% completely totally
fine and playable this is freaking
awesome oh I mean except I need to get
good that's the only issue when the CPU
is fast enough you will get a great
gaming experience I would definitely
recommend upgrading an older system like
this before spending that kind of money
on a GPU yeah but you can throw in your
new GPU and then upgrade later if you
really want to you could as long as
you've already got the uh power supply
head room yeah this is freaking awesome
400 watts oh wow and so much more
efficient which tells us we are still
very CPU bottle oh 100% our cards fans
aren't even turned on I mean even if we
are capping the frame rate that is
flipping wild okay why is that frame
rate capped though I don't know you know
what I bet that frame rate cap is a big
part of why the CPU is not causing
issues as well cuz not just running it
right up against the limit okay Jedi
fall in order I feel good we're going to
play a reasonably game on this ancient
freaking platform plus a 3090 well plus
A 390t Minor
Details this is better but still sucks
much yeah this is still very hitchy now
give it a sec maybe it'll warm up you
know what I want to do now what not now
now but now that I've seen this I want
to get those 980 TI running on something
a little newer they might not be that
bad 6 gigs of vram though I feel like
this is CPU again oh wait no we're at
like 100 FPS also it's not hitching as
much anymore yeah it warmed up this kind
of settled in this is like perfect now
playable perfect perfect is a
stretch see it's not perfect when he
goes to New areas and it has to load for
a second struggling a little it
struggles it is damn playable markedly
better I'd like to see you play this
game on your 13-year-old console oh yeah
no that's not going to work mind you
your 13-year-old console wouldn't have
cost you 1,000 to upgrade or to begin
with you know what else needs an upgrade
this segue just kidding not yet I wanted
to talk about how much fun we had
building this okay it was kind of a
disaster and there were compatibility
issues just like in the old days but
like overclocking man we got a
meaningful Improvement in performance
and crisis for like 15 25 minutes of
effort do you guys even overclock
anymore we're going to link a community
poll in the video description it just
doesn't feel worth it and man and I
don't know what it is maybe it's the
polo shirt with the collar or the old
Hardware but this was an absolute blast
even if the price made no sense and it
was inefficient as all hell just like
this inefficient segue
to our
sponsor flexi spot you know sitting is
so last year standing is what the kids
are into these days and flexi spot knows
this that's why their E7 plus standing
desk is so darn solid
unlike typical twoleg standing desks the
E7 Plus's four-leg design gives it a leg
up on the competition boasting a weight
capacity of up to 540 lb static and 440
lb lifting this extra support means Rock
Solid stability so no more worrying
about all the stuff on your desk
toppling over just from you breathing on
it and unlike some other four-leg desks
it supports a variety of accessories
like monitor mounts underes drawers and
keyboard trays Plus with a generous
15-year warranty you can trust in its
durability for years to come even the
control panel is Advanced with
programmable height presets and a USB
charging port check out the flexispot E7
plus using the link below and use the
code provided to get $50 off your order
of $500 or more if you guys enjoyed this
video why not check out the predecessor
to this Intel skull
Trail it was
worse but in some ways cooler